Add factor for max size of merge thread pool (#156054)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/merge.md

Defaults to `100GB` when `indices.merge.disk.watermark.high` is not explicitly set.
This caps the amount of free disk space before merge scheduling is blocked.

The merge scheduler also supports the following *static* node-level setting, which takes effect only on node restart:

> `indices.merge.thread_pool.max_size_factor`

Reviewer: needs version info here

```suggestion
`indices.merge.thread_pool.max_size_factor` {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.6`
```

> :   A factor in the range `(0, 1]` applied to the maximum size of the `merge` thread pool, which otherwise defaults to the number of [`node.processors`](/reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/node-settings.md). The scaled value is rounded to the nearest integer and is never lower than `1`. Lowering it (for example to `0.5`) reduces the number of merges that may run concurrently on the node, which lowers peak merge memory usage at the cost of merge throughput. Defaults to `1`. An explicit `thread_pool.merge.max` takes precedence over the value derived from this factor.

Reviewer: is this accurate?

```suggestion
:   A factor in the range `(0, 1]` applied to the maximum size of the `merge` thread pool. The result is rounded to the nearest integer and never lower than `1`. Lowering the factor (for example to `0.5`) reduces how many merges can run concurrently on the node, which lowers peak merge memory usage at the cost of merge throughput. Defaults to `1`.

    If `thread_pool.merge.max` is explicitly configured, that value is used regardless of this factor. When neither is set, the pool maximum is the number of [allocated processors](/reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/thread-pool-settings.md#node.processors).
```

Author: Yes, that is accurate - thanks for the suggestion!

Defaults to `100GB` when `indices.merge.disk.watermark.high` is not explicitly set.
This caps the amount of free disk space before merge scheduling is blocked.

The merge scheduler also supports the following *static* node-level setting, which takes effect only on node restart:

`indices.merge.thread_pool.max_size_factor` {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.6`

> :   A factor in the range `(0, 1]` that reduces the maximum size of the `merge` thread pool. The result is rounded to the nearest integer and never lower than `1`. Lowering the factor, for example, to `0.5`, reduces how many merges can run concurrently on the node, which lowers peak merge memory usage at the cost of merge throughput. Defaults to `1`.

Reviewer 2: I think the documentation should go to https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/thread-pool-settings rather than here. Here, it's mostly about the max threads for a single shard. While the thread pool page is the new merge thread pool that is single for all shards. And that's the thread pool we'd like to affect with the new setting.

But, if it's cumbersome to put it to the thread pool page, then putting here may also be fine, but ensuring you also add somehow the phrase "merges for all the shards on the node".

Author: Yeah, that seems a better place for it especially since the index-settings all are per-shard. Done in https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/156054/changes/e45449f8e17a66d62e6adf4d0ab7a5b7979d6b54

cc @shainaraskas to re-review for docs

Author: Yeah, that seems a better place for it especially since the index-settings all are per-shard. Done in https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/156054/changes/e45449f8e17a66d62e6adf4d0ab7a5b7979d6b54

cc @shainaraskas to re-review for docs

Reviewer: @kingherc's comment is accurate - the setting is misplaced. the reason I skipped addressing the placement issue in this PR is that we actually have only cluster/shard-level settings on this page, and the entire page needs to move: https://github.com/elastic/docs-content-internal/issues/1584

will do a quick check of the placement, but that's the longer-term requirement so we don't mix config levels across the references.
